README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![GPL License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![Build Status][build-shield]][build-url]


<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash">
    <img src="m17reflectors.png" alt="Logo">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">gomrefdash</h3>

  <p align="center">
    mrefd Dashboard, in Go!
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

## About The Project

[![Product Name Screen Shot][product-screenshot]](https://ref.m17.link)

A dashboard written for mrefd 0.5.0+ in Go!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Built With

* [![Go][Go.dev]][Go-url]
* [![Quasar][Quasar.dev]][Quasar-url]
* [![JQuery][JQuery.com]][JQuery-url]
* [![Vue][Vue.js]][Vue-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Getting Started

Clone, build, and run!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Prerequisites

Install Go 1.19+ according to your platform, directions can be found [here](https://go.dev/doc/install)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash.git
   ```
2. Build the application
   ```sh
   make
   ```
3. Copy gomrefdash.sample.toml and edit to your environment
    ```sh
    cp gomrefdash.sample.toml gomrefdash.toml
    ```
4. Run gomrefdash
   ```sh
   ./gomrefdash
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Configuring and operating gomrefdash

gomrefdash.toml:

`hostport` - the port on which the gomrefdash web server will run

`ipv4` - listening IPv4 address of mrefd

`ipv6` - listening IPv6 address of mrefd

`refresh` - refresh rate of the data on the web pages in seconds

`lastheard` - number of stations to show in the last heard list

`mreffile` - path to the mrefd XML log file location

`mrefpidfile` - path to the PID file for mrefd

`email` - reflector sysop's email address

`debug` - boolean option to run Gin in debug mode

`subpath` - if your dashboard needs to run in a subpath behind a 
reverse proxy, e.g. "/reflector" would be http://yourhostname/reflector, 
leave blank for no sub path

It is important to note that gomrefdash itself has a web (HTTP) server 
built-in. That is what the `hostport` defines in the TOML configuration 
file. If you are only running gomrefdash, and no other web server, then 
`hostport` can be defined as a 'standard' HTTP port, such as port 80 - 
so long as the user running the gomrefdash service has permission to 
run on a port that is below `1024`.

The preferred way to run `gomrefdash` 
is behind a reverse proxy. This alleviates issues of permissions and 
system security (we hope you're not running `gomrefdash` as root!) as 
well as being able to easily enable SSL on a publicly facing web page.

Recommended web servers to use for reverse proxying are nginx, Apache, 
and Caddy. Please refer to their documentation on how to set up a 
reverse proxy.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Advanced (Experimental)

These are some things that aren't officially supported, but you can try it out.
### Docker

#### Some Assumptions

1. mrefd is already running on the system running docker.

2. You are familiar with docker and it's installed on your system - https://www.docker.com

3. You have docker-compose installed - https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/

#### Quickstart

1. Copy docker-compose.sample.yml to docker-compose.yml

2. Edit the docker-compose.yml for your environment

3. Run ```docker-compose up```

4. Open http://localhost:3000

You will need to put a proxy in front of your application, or modify the docker-compose file to add nginx or caddy.  That is left as an exercise for the admin as the choices are various.  Many of us prefer caddy as it has automatic ssl via letsencrypt.

To upgrade, ```git pull && docker-compose down && docker-compose build && docker-compose up -d```

Check with ```docker-compose logs -f``` (hit ctrl-c to stop log streaming)

### Makefile

The makefile has various convience functions:

* ```make``` (no parameters), builds the binary for your system

* ```make run``` runs the application (without building a binary)

* ```make docker``` builds a docker image with the application

* ```make clean``` cleans old builds

* ```make package``` builds and packages everything up into a tarball for your system

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Roadmap

- [x] Beta Release
- [x] Refresh page on log file changes, instead of a meta refresh in browser - thanks KF8S
- [x] Create two-column layout for Modules In Use, instead of a single column
- [x] Add country flags for callsigns

See the [open issues](https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## License

Distributed under the GPL 3.0 License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contact

* M17 Project Discord - [![Discord][Discord]][Discord-url]

Project Link: [https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash](https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Acknowledgments

* [Tom N7TAE](https://github.com/n7tae) _Creator of mrefd and inspiration for development_
* [Dave KF8S](https://github.com/dbehnke) _Beta testing and great feedback, page refresh code, many improvements_
* edgetriggered _Teaching me finer points of Golang, help and guidance_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[build-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/kc1awv/gomrefdash/audit.yml?style=for-the-badge
[build-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/actions/workflow/status/kc1awv/gomrefdashaudit.yml
[product-screenshot]: m17dashboard-screenshot.png
[Quasar.dev]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Quasar-16B7FB?style=for-the-badge&logo=quasar&logoColor=black
[Quasar-url]: https://quasar.dev/
[Go.dev]: https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/kc1awv/gomrefdash?style=for-the-badge
[Go-url]: https://go.dev/
[JQuery.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jQuery-0769AD?style=for-the-badge&logo=jquery&logoColor=white
[JQuery-url]: https://jquery.com 
[Vue.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Vue.js-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=vuedotjs&logoColor=4FC08D
[Vue-url]: https://vuejs.org/
[Discord]: https://img.shields.io/discord/771492414120656907?style=for-the-badge
[Discord-url]: https://discord.gg/G8zGphypf6

Commit message:

update README to mention https://github.com/mfiscus/mrefd-docker

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![GPL License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![Build Status][build-shield]][build-url]


<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash">
    <img src="m17reflectors.png" alt="Logo">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">gomrefdash</h3>

  <p align="center">
    mrefd Dashboard, in Go!
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

## About The Project

[![Product Name Screen Shot][product-screenshot]](https://ref.m17.link)

A dashboard written for mrefd 0.5.0+ in Go!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Built With

* [![Go][Go.dev]][Go-url]
* [![Quasar][Quasar.dev]][Quasar-url]
* [![JQuery][JQuery.com]][JQuery-url]
* [![Vue][Vue.js]][Vue-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Getting Started

Clone, build, and run!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Prerequisites

Install Go 1.19+ according to your platform, directions can be found [here](https://go.dev/doc/install)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash.git
   ```
2. Build the application
   ```sh
   make
   ```
3. Copy gomrefdash.sample.toml and edit to your environment
    ```sh
    cp gomrefdash.sample.toml gomrefdash.toml
    ```
4. Run gomrefdash
   ```sh
   ./gomrefdash
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Configuring and operating gomrefdash

gomrefdash.toml:

`hostport` - the port on which the gomrefdash web server will run

`ipv4` - listening IPv4 address of mrefd

`ipv6` - listening IPv6 address of mrefd

`refresh` - refresh rate of the data on the web pages in seconds

`lastheard` - number of stations to show in the last heard list

`mreffile` - path to the mrefd XML log file location

`mrefpidfile` - path to the PID file for mrefd

`email` - reflector sysop's email address

`debug` - boolean option to run Gin in debug mode

`subpath` - if your dashboard needs to run in a subpath behind a 
reverse proxy, e.g. "/reflector" would be http://yourhostname/reflector, 
leave blank for no sub path

It is important to note that gomrefdash itself has a web (HTTP) server 
built-in. That is what the `hostport` defines in the TOML configuration 
file. If you are only running gomrefdash, and no other web server, then 
`hostport` can be defined as a 'standard' HTTP port, such as port 80 - 
so long as the user running the gomrefdash service has permission to 
run on a port that is below `1024`.

The preferred way to run `gomrefdash` 
is behind a reverse proxy. This alleviates issues of permissions and 
system security (we hope you're not running `gomrefdash` as root!) as 
well as being able to easily enable SSL on a publicly facing web page.

Recommended web servers to use for reverse proxying are nginx, Apache, 
and Caddy. Please refer to their documentation on how to set up a 
reverse proxy.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Advanced (Experimental)

These are some things that aren't officially supported, but you can try it out.
### Docker

You may wish to to use https://github.com/mfiscus/mrefd-docker which contains both mrefd and the dashboard.

Below are legacy instructions to use the docker solution in this repository.

#### Some Assumptions

1. mrefd is already running on the system running docker.

2. You are familiar with docker and it's installed on your system - https://www.docker.com

3. You have docker-compose installed - https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/

#### Quickstart

1. Copy docker-compose.sample.yml to docker-compose.yml

2. Edit the docker-compose.yml for your environment

3. Run ```docker-compose up```

4. Open http://localhost:3000

You will need to put a proxy in front of your application, or modify the docker-compose file to add nginx or caddy.  That is left as an exercise for the admin as the choices are various.  Many of us prefer caddy as it has automatic ssl via letsencrypt.

To upgrade, ```git pull && docker-compose down && docker-compose build && docker-compose up -d```

Check with ```docker-compose logs -f``` (hit ctrl-c to stop log streaming)

### Makefile

The makefile has various convience functions:

* ```make``` (no parameters), builds the binary for your system

* ```make run``` runs the application (without building a binary)

* ```make docker``` builds a docker image with the application

* ```make clean``` cleans old builds

* ```make package``` builds and packages everything up into a tarball for your system

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Roadmap

- [x] Beta Release
- [x] Refresh page on log file changes, instead of a meta refresh in browser - thanks KF8S
- [x] Create two-column layout for Modules In Use, instead of a single column
- [x] Add country flags for callsigns

See the [open issues](https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## License

Distributed under the GPL 3.0 License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Contact

* M17 Project Discord - [![Discord][Discord]][Discord-url]

Project Link: [https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash](https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Acknowledgments

* [Tom N7TAE](https://github.com/n7tae) _Creator of mrefd and inspiration for development_
* [Dave KF8S](https://github.com/dbehnke) _Beta testing and great feedback, page refresh code, many improvements_
* edgetriggered _Teaching me finer points of Golang, help and guidance_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/kc1awv/gomrefdash.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[build-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/kc1awv/gomrefdash/audit.yml?style=for-the-badge
[build-url]: https://github.com/kc1awv/gomrefdash/actions/workflow/status/kc1awv/gomrefdashaudit.yml
[product-screenshot]: m17dashboard-screenshot.png
[Quasar.dev]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Quasar-16B7FB?style=for-the-badge&logo=quasar&logoColor=black
[Quasar-url]: https://quasar.dev/
[Go.dev]: https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/kc1awv/gomrefdash?style=for-the-badge
[Go-url]: https://go.dev/
[JQuery.com]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jQuery-0769AD?style=for-the-badge&logo=jquery&logoColor=white
[JQuery-url]: https://jquery.com 
[Vue.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Vue.js-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=vuedotjs&logoColor=4FC08D
[Vue-url]: https://vuejs.org/
[Discord]: https://img.shields.io/discord/771492414120656907?style=for-the-badge
[Discord-url]: https://discord.gg/G8zGphypf6
